---
title: How to Live Above Your Means
date: 2016-01-05
tags: finance, satirical
---

### Step 1
Think about who you are and what you want.
<!-- more -->

You want to express yourself with a big house or an apartment in the awesome part of town. You want
the luxury car. The designer cloths. The jewelry other's envy. Of course, this is what everyone
wants! If you don't want it you are weird, not cool, and are failing to express your uniqueness.
Think about it, you don't want to be exuded.

Start with some homework. Look around, what is everyone else doing? _If the masses do it then
obviously you need to start_. Everyone can't be wrong, right? Exactly! This is known as "thinking
for yourself". You should do it a little every day by observing others then emulating them. The
easiest way is to buy the same things.


### Step 2
Get a credit card.

Don't be a fool, look for credit cards that give you points or miles or something. This is the true
glory of this lifestyle, be smart make good decisions, get a credit card with a reward system
because that _makes all the difference_.

Secondary, look for high credit limit. Don't sacrifice rewards for a higher limit, but still keep
this in mind because you want the **power to make things happen**. Also this will positively affect
your credit rating. If one company trusts you with a lot of purchasing power, so will the others.

Finally, don't be afraid to get more than one credit card. The more lines of credit you have also
gives you a better credit rating. Anything that increases your credit score is a good move, don't
even put anymore thought into this.


### Step 3
Automate.

Exploit the credit card company by abusing the reward system and move all your monthly expenses to
this card(s). If there is an autopayment option (like your phone bill or Netflix), do it! Take that
expense completely off your mind. Automate and never think of it again. This is key to living above
your means--perhaps one of the most important steps.

Next, automate the credit card payment. Most cards will have the option to automatically pay the
minimum every month. Don't be a fool and get his with late fees, automate this payment too. Of
course you can pay more when it is convenient for you. Never forget that, this is for your
convenience. Paying bills and tracking your expenses isn't something you should waste time on. Your
time is valuable; the most valuable thing you own.


### Step 4
Carry on.

In addition to your regular automated expenses, put everything on the credit card to reap those
rewards. Groceries, gas, rent, whatever. You don't want these mundane expenses to put a drain on
your checking account. All those things you want, swipe your card and get it. You don't have to
worry now that the minimum payment will be made every month.

It's important to remember life is not about money. It's about experiences; and stuff equals
experience. Experiences are good, money is evil. This is especially important if you are young. If
you make a mistake young it's not a big deal, you'll recover. You can always get a new job and make
more money.


### Extra Tips
You want a big item, like a car or a house. The most important part is the monthly payment. Get that
as low as possible so you have money left to spend on other things.

Most homes have a 30 year mortgage, a 10 or 15 year is just silly. No one is going to live in a
house that long anyway. Cars can also be financed beyond 5 years, don't let them fool you. They can
go 6, 7, sometimes even 8 years. It doesn't matter, you'll be buying a new one in two years. The
less you pay per month now the better. Don't worry about the unpaid principle when it's time to
trade up because it will roll over into the new loan. No need to stress about that ever.

Some people will tell you to invest. Investing is something old men talk about while golfing at the
country club. It's hard and most people don't do it. Remember if it was good enough for most
everyone, then it's the right choice. Same is true of the opposite; if no one is doing it then it's
stupid.
